# Statistical Analysis abd Data Visualization of Natural Resources Contribution to GDP in African Countries Using R and Power BI


Majority of the African country still striving to attain social and economic development. In view of this, we try to understand the contribution of the different natural resources to the GDP in some African countries. Also, we compare the two regions.To achieve this goal, we employ the use of different statistical analyses to help us understand the trends and patterns of the dataset. The statistical analyses employed are descriptive analysis to understand the summary of the dataset, correlation analysis to understand the relationship between each of the indicators, regression analysis to build a multiple linear regression model, time series analysis, and forecasting to predict any future trend in the Natural resource GDP.
An interactive dashboard was also employed for this project to; 1) Understand the energy mix and average electricity produced by the region. 2) Comprehend Africa's proportion of emissions of CO2 from electricity production. 3) Percentage of the population’s access to electricity. 4) The measure of the percentage of energy produced from different sources. With the use of this dashboard, we will be able to see how Africa's primary source of power is performing.
To carry out this study, we obtained our dataset on the summary of Africa’s energy production and consumption, and greenhouse gas emissions from electricity production from the years 2000-2014 from https://databank.worldbank.org. This study was carried out with the use of different charts on a single dashboard using Microsoft Power Bi which is one of the leading visualization tools.

